Newsletters: add 356 (2025-05-30) (#2341)
bitcoinops/bitcoinops.github.io: _posts/en/newsletters/2025-05-30-newsletter.md

---
title: 'Bitcoin Optech Newsletter #356'
permalink: /en/newsletters/2025/05/30/
name: 2025-05-30-newsletter
slug: 2025-05-30-newsletter
type: newsletter
layout: newsletter
lang: en
---
This week's newsletter FIXME

## News

- **Do attributable failures reduce LN privacy?** Carla Kirk-Cohen
  [posted][kirkcohen af] to Delving Bitcoin an analysis of the possible
  consequences for the privacy of LN spenders and receivers if the
  network adopts [attributable failures][topic attributable failures],
  particularly telling the spender the amount of time it took to forward
  a payment at each hop.  Citing several papers, she describes two types
  of deanonymization attacks:

>   - An attacker operating one ore more forwarding nodes who uses timing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - An attacker operating one or more forwarding nodes uses timing
```
(Mike's suggestion, plus one more small one)

    data to determine the number of hops used by a payment ([HTLC][topic
    htlc]), which can be combined with knowledge of the topography of
    the public network to narrow the set of nodes that might have been
    the receiver.

>   - An attacker who uses an IP network traffic forwarder

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - An attacker uses an IP network traffic forwarder
```

    ([autonomous system][]) to passively monitor traffic and combines
    that with knowledge of the IP network latency between nodes (i.e.,
    their ping times) plus knowledge of the topography (and other
    characteristics) of the public Lightning Network.

  She then describes possible solutions, including:

  - Encouraging receivers to delay acceptance of an HTLC by a small

>     random amount to prevent timing attacks attempting to identify the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    random amount to prevent timing attacks that attempt to identify the
```

    receiver's node.

  - Encouraging spenders to delay resending failed payments (or
    [MPP][topic multipath payments] parts) by a small random amount and
    by using alternative paths to prevent timing and failure attacks
    attempting to identify the spender's node.

  - Increased payment splitting with MPP to make it harder to guess the
    amount being spent.

  - Allowing spenders to opt-in to having their payments forwarded less
    quickly, as previously proposed (see [Newsletter #208][news208
    slowln]).  This could be combined with HTLC batching, which is
    already implemented in LND (although the addition of a randomized

>     delay could make it more privacy-improving).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    delay could further enhance privacy).
```

  - Reducing the precision of attributable failure timestamps to avoid
    penalizing forwarding nodes that add small random delays.

  Discussion from multiple participants evaluated the concerns and

>   proposed solutions in more detail, as well as discussing other

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  proposed solutions in more detail, as well as other
```

  possible attacks and mitigations.

## Selected Q&A from Bitcoin Stack Exchange

*[Bitcoin Stack Exchange][bitcoin.se] is one of the first places Optech
contributors look for answers to their questions---or when we have a
few spare moments to help curious or confused users.  In
this monthly feature, we highlight some of the top-voted questions and
answers posted since our last update.*

{% comment %}<!-- https://bitcoin.stackexchange.com/search?tab=votes&q=created%3a1m..%20is%3aanswer -->{% endcomment %}
{% assign bse = "https://bitcoin.stackexchange.com/a/" %}

- [Which transactions get into blockreconstructionextratxn?]({{bse}}116519)
  Glozow explains how the extrapool data structure (see [Newsletter #339][news339
  extrapool]) caches rejected and replaced transactions seen by the node

>   and explains the criteria for exclusion and eviction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  and lists the criteria for exclusion and eviction.
```
(or maybe "gives")
Otherwise there are two "explains" in the same sentence, which seems to over-explain somewhat. :)

- [Why would anyone use OP_RETURN over inscriptions, aside from fees?]({{bse}}126208)
  Sjors Provoost notes that in addition to sometimes being cheaper, `OP_RETURN`
  can also be used for protocols that need data to be available before a transaction

>   is spent, as opposed to witness data that is revealed during spending.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  is spent, as opposed to witness data that spending reveals.
```

- [Why is my Bitcoin node not receiving incoming connections?]({{bse}}126338)
  Lightlike points out that a new node on the network can take time to have its
  address widely advertised on the P2P network and that nodes will not
  advertise their address until IBD has completed.

- [How do I configure my node to filter out transactions larger than 400 bytes?]({{bse}}126347)
  Antoine Poinsot confirms there is no configuration option in Bitcoin Core to
  customize the maximum standard transaction size. He outlines that users
  wanting to customize that value can update their source code, but warns about

>   potential downsizes of both larger and smaller maximum values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  the potential downsides of both larger and smaller maximum values.
```

- [What does "not publicly routable" node in Bitcoin Core P2P mean?]({{bse}}126225)
  Pieter Wuille and Vasil Dimov provide examples of P2P connections, such as
  [Tor][topic anonymity networks], that cannot be routed on the global internet

>   and that show up in Bitcoin Core's `netinfo` output in the "npr" bucket.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  and that appear in Bitcoin Core's `netinfo` output in the "npr" bucket.
```

- [Why would a node would ever relay a transaction?]({{bse}}127391)
  Pieter Wuille lists benefits of relaying transactions for a node operator:
  privacy when relaying your own transactions from your node, faster block
  propagation if the user is mining, and improved network decentralization with
  minimal incremental costs beyond just relaying blocks.

- [Is selfish mining still an option with compact blocks and FIBRE?]({{bse}}49515)

>   Antoine Poinsot follows up to the 2016 question noting "Yes, selfish mining is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Antoine Poinsot follows up on the 2016 question, noting, "Yes, selfish mining is
```

[LND][lnd repo], [libsecp256k1][libsecp256k1 repo], [Hardware Wallet
Interface (HWI)][hwi repo], [Rust Bitcoin][rust bitcoin repo], [BTCPay
Server][btcpay server repo], [BDK][bdk repo], [Bitcoin Improvement
Proposals (BIPs)][bips repo], [Lightning BOLTs][bolts repo],
[Lightning BLIPs][blips repo], [Bitcoin Inquisition][bitcoin inquisition
repo], and [BINANAs][binana repo]._

- [Bitcoin Core #31622][] adds a signature hash (sighash) type field to
  [PSBTs][topic psbt] when it is different from `SIGHASH_DEFAULT` or
  `SIGHASH_ALL`. [MuSig2][topic musig] support requires everyone to sign with
  the same sighash type, so this field must be present in the PSBT.
  Additionally, the `descriptorprocesspsbt` RPC command is updated to use the
  `SignPSBTInput` function, which ensures that the PSBT's sighash type matches
  the one provided in the CLI, if applicable.

- [Eclair #3065][] adds support for attributable failures (see Newsletter
  [#224][news224 failures]) as specified in [BOLTs #1044][]. It’s disabled by
  default because the specification isn't finalized, but can be enabled with the
  setting `eclair.features.option_attributable_failure = optional`.

>   Cross-compatibility with LDK has been successfully tested, see Newsletter

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Cross-compatibility with LDK has been successfully tested; see Newsletter
```

  [#349][news349 failures] for more information on LDK’s implementation and how
  this protocol works.

- [LDK #3796][] tightens the channel balance checks so that funders have

>   sufficient funds to cover for the commitment transaction fee, the two 330 sat

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  sufficient funds to cover the commitment transaction fee, the two 330 sat
```

  [anchor outputs][topic anchor outputs], and the channel reserve. Previously,
  funders could dip into the channel reserve funds to cover for the two anchors.

- [BIPs #1760][] merges [BIP53][] which specifies a consensus soft-fork rule
  that disallows 64-byte transactions (measured without witness data) to prevent
  a type of [merkle tree vulnerability][topic merkle tree vulnerabilities]
  exploitable against SPV clients. This PR proposes a similar fix to the one
  included in the [consensus cleanup softfork][topic consensus cleanup], but the

>   latter tackles three additional vulnerabilities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  latter addresses three additional vulnerabilities.
```
Or "fixes"?

- [BIPs #1850][] reverts an earlier update to [BIP48][] which reserved the
  script type value 3 for [taproot][topic taproot] (P2TR) derivations (see
  Newsletter [#353][news353 bip48]). This is because [tapscript][topic tapscript]
  lacks `OP_CHECKMULTISIG`, so the referenced output script in [BIP67][] (which
  [BIP48][] relies on) cannot be expressed in P2TR. This PR also marks
  [BIP48][]’s status as `Final`, reflecting that its purpose was to define the

>   industry use of m/48' [HD wallet][topic bip32] derivation paths when the BIP

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  industry use of `m/48'` [HD wallet][topic bip32] derivation paths when the BIP
```
